---
title: Glossary
author: matt
type: post
date: 2017-09-21T21:41:37+00:00
url: /2017/09/glossary/
categories:
  - Blog

---
**Idempotent** &#8211; something that is repeatable, that remains unchanged in value when repeatedly executed either independently or on by itself.

**SSRS** &#8211; SQL Server Reporting Services part of Microsoft SQL Server. Used to deliver static reports that can be viewed via a web browser and exported to a number of formats including Excel, PDF and CSV.

**SSAS** &#8211; SQL Server Analysis Services part of Microsoft SQL Server.

**SSIS** &#8211; SQL Server Integration Services part of Microsoft SQL Server. Originally designed as a ETL tool to build a data warehouse but has expanded and is able to automate a number of SQL Server related tasks.

**PowerBI** &#8211; Power BI is a business analytics service provided by Microsoft. It provides interactive visualizations with self-service business intelligence capabilities, where end users can create reports and dashboards by themselves, without having to depend on information technology staff or database administrators.

**Kimball** -A methodology for data warehousing also known as dimensional modeling authored by Ralph Kimball.

**C#** &#8211; C sharp is a general-purpose, object-oriented programming language developed by Microsoft.

**PowerShell** -is a task automation and configuration management framework from Microsoft, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on the .NET Framework and .NET Core.

**MIS** &#8211; Management Information System

**MI** &#8211; Management Information

**BI** &#8211; Business Intelligence

**SQL** &#8211; Structured Query Language
